---
layout: post
title: Restructuring Training & Development Function
date: 2017-11-29 
published: true
---

The experience and learning that I got from conducting a full-fledged training program during my masters, made me to pursue my career in Training and Development(T&D) Function. Fortunately, my career started with this amazing opportunity to learn everyday something new and exciting in an organization where this function was being done for many years. When I learnt everything, I started thinking about how to improve it, how to make it more valuable for the workforce.


The process of T&D starts with Training Need Analysis(TNA) which was being done there with the help of departmental meeting yearly and HR performance appraisal report. In the initial two months, I the first step was to collect all the data of past years and list out; the most **popular trainings** acquired by the workforce with the highest number of participation, trainers who had trained the highest number of employees. Likewise, the most unpopular training programs with the lowest participation. The idea behind it was to check what do the employees being nominated by the department react to it, do they participate whenever get nominated. The second step was to invite employees to the training programs by **marketing and connecting** with the employees more frequently so that they get to know how much important they are for T&D Department and what measures this department is taking in order to equip them with the latest knowledge and skill-set. The third step was to have a **training survey** for the year 2018, to engage employees to be part of trainings which were to be offered in order to make sure the maximum participation. The forth step was to conduct **TNA by using Google forms**, sent directly to the Head of the Departments to evaluate each employee with all the necessary skills such as personal grooming skills (lifelong learning e.g. confidence building, negotiation skills), Management and leadership (how to the manage work and subordinates e.g. time management, team management, strategic leadership), communication skills (how do they interact with each other e.g. conflict management, interpersonal skills), computer skills (MS Office, Adobe photoshop) or any field specific skill which is needed to be acquired and benefit the organization. The forth step was to make training program a refresher neither a normal regular day. For that outdoor activities were to be managed keeping the cultural constraints in mind.


The aim was to make a plan where HODs and employees of respective department were to be brought at the same pace. There must not be any conflict regarding the participation neither by the side of higher management nor by the staff member. The more employees will be involved the more return of investment there will be. There must be a continuous process of learning within the departments, then within the organization. 
