---
layout: post
title: A Contemporary Approach to Rectruitment
date: 2018-01-14 
published: true
---

Over the period of time Human Resource (HR) Department has evolved itself in such a tremendous way that today we have a documented process for each function in each department of an organization. This does not only ensures the efficiency and effectiveness of these processes but also brings consistency and compliance in each function.
But the evolution process has never been stopped. The organization which does not have the ability to adapt change gets straight out of the race. Remember! Adaptation will only help to maintain the status quo, if an organization really wants to progress, it needs to bring creativity in each function. Creativity is the need of time. By creativity, I mean a mindset which is open for the odds. Now, how to it relates to my topic?

-I always say that HR is the face of the organization; whether an employee is joining or leaving it has got to deal with HR. However, the approach for recruitment and selection which is being prevailed these days’ needs to be redesigned. I still remember during my master, we had an Interviewing Skills Workshop and we were told that the organizations do not have enough time for your CV or interview. Unfortunately; recruiters take pride of saying that too. Being an HR Professional, I completely agree to this but at the same time I do not believe in humiliating or criticizing somebody’s career choices. Although, their choices do not make any sense to you but they must be respected not matter how wrong they were. Moreover, do not put them on spot. A person’s modified aspirations just to get a job would not create value for the organization but his/her skills and experience will. Humility costs nothing.

-Recruiters must focus on building relationship with candidates. Just having a great interview experience initiates affective commitment. So, they must try to know a little about them, their hobbies and general awareness level. This will help to establish long-term relationship with the organization and creating more open and friendly environment. This also makes the recruiter a trusted advisor for organization and candidate as well. 

-Recruiters need to listen first and talk second. Recruiters must possess the uncanny ability to listen and take a proper piece of information. Listen and focus on how candidates pitch their knowledge and experience. Look for a unique yet relevant skill-set. Do not compartmentalize knowledge and skills, they must complement each other. The recruiter must be able to think of the big picture. For instance, few skills may seem irrelevant but if he/she possesses the skills required for a particular job, ignore the irrelevant ones. For example, if somebody has done an MBA (HR) and he has also experience/knowledge in graphic designing, to some extent he can be a good resource for recruitment function, training & development- presentations. Likewise, if somebody has CA or ACCA background with HR degree; he/she will not seem to be great for the time being but in future when he will get into any strategic role he will definitely add value.

To conclude this discussion I would say, recruiters’ job description must go beyond posting job ads and sending emails. Recruitment must be considered science and recruiters need to be trained since they come first then the organization.
